HERRIE(1)							     HERRIE(1)



NAME
       herrie - interactive music playlist player

SYNOPSIS
       herrie [-vx] [-c configfile] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
       herrie  is a command line music player. It supports multiple audio file
       formats (including MP3 and Ogg Vorbis) and  has	the  ability  to  send
       playback  statistics  to AudioScrobbler. The word `herrie' is Dutch for
       `clamor'.

       herrie uses a split-screen user interface: a playlist at the top and  a
       filebrowser  at the bottom. The application has two modes of operation,
       called `party mode' and `XMMS mode'. When the application is started in
       party  mode,  the first song in the playlist gets started. It will also
       be removed from the playlist as well. When the application  is  started
       in  XMMS mode, any song can be started and will not be removed from the
       playlist.  The default mode is party mode.

       The following command line options are available:

       -c configfile
	      By default, herrie searches in ~/.herrie/config or in the system
	      wide  global configuration file %%CONFFILE%% for options. The -c
	      options allows you to load additional configuration files.

       -v     Display version information and a list of  supported  file  for-
	      mats.

       -x     This switch causes herrie to start up in XMMS mode.

CONFIGURATION SWITCHES
       may  be	configured by storing options in a configuration file. Options
       must be stored in the following format:

       key=value

       Below is a list of switches, including their default values:

       audio.output.ao.driver=
	      The name of the driver that LibAO should use for audio playback.

       audio.output.ao.host=
	      The  hostname  that  LibAO  should  use to transmit the sound to
	      (only applicable to Esound). When set to env_ssh the application
	      will  use the IP-address in the SSH_CLIENT environment variable.

       audio.output.oss.device=/dev/dsp
	      The OSS DSP device, used	for  audio  playback.  On  NetBSD  and
	      OpenBSD, this value will be set to /dev/audio by default.

       gui.browser.defaultpath=
	      On  startup, the current directory is shown in the file browser.
	      When this option is set, it tries to open that  specific	direc-
	      tory first.

       gui.color.bar.bg=blue
	      The  background  color of the bars (the status bar at the top of
	      the screen and the directory name bar in the middle). Valid col-
	      ors  are	black,	red, green, yellow, blue, magenta, cyan, white
	      and default. The latter is the terminal's  default  color  (e.g.
	      black on white).

       gui.color.bar.fg=white
	      The foreground color of the bars.

       gui.color.block.bg=black
	      The  background  color  of  the  blocks  (the playlist, the file
	      browser and the message prompt at the bottom).

       gui.color.block.fg=white
	      The foreground color of the blocks.

       gui.color.deselect.bg=white
	      The background color of a selected item of  an  inactive	window
	      (the  background	color  of a selection in the file browser when
	      the playlist is selected, for example).

       gui.color.deselect.fg=black
	      The foreground color of a selected item of an inactive window.

       gui.color.enabled=yes
	      Draw the application using colors when the terminal supports it.
	      When disabled, the application is forced to draw itself as if it
	      were used with a monochrome terminal.

       gui.color.marked.fg=black
	      The foreground color of the item that is currenty played. It  is
	      not used when in party mode.

       gui.color.marked.bg=red
	      The  background color of the item that is currenty played. It is
	      not used when in party mode.

       gui.color.select.bg=cyan
	      The background color of a selected item of an active window.

       gui.color.select.fg=black
	      The foreground color of a selected item of an active window.

       playq.dumpfile=~/.herrie/autosave.xspf
	      The filename used to automatically save the playlist at shutdown
	      and  load at startup. When empty, this feature will be disabled.

       playq.xmms=no
	      Always start herrie in XMMS mode.

       scrobbler.dumpfile=~/.herrie/scrobbler.queue
	      The file that is used to store tracks that have not been submit-
	      ted  to  AudioScrobbler  yet. When set to empty, this feature is
	      disabled, causing all unsubmitted tracks to be discarded.

       scrobbler.hostname=post.audioscrobbler.com
	      The hostname the AudioScrobbler client uses when authenticating.

       scrobbler.password=
	      The password the Audioscrobbler client uses when authenticating.
	      Make sure your configuration  file  isn't  world	readable  when
	      specifying  this	switch in your configuration file. Please note
	      that this switch must contain an MD5  hash.  Use	the  following
	      command to generate such a hash: echo -n 'p4ssw0rd' | md5

       scrobbler.username=
	      The username the AudioScrobbler client uses when authenticating.

       vfs.dir.hide_dotfiles=yes
	      Hide files in directories with a filename starting with a dot.

       vfs.lockup.chroot=
	      Lock the application's filebrowser in a directory.  Please  note
	      that herrie must be launched as root for this switch to work. It
	      is advised to set vfs.lockup.user as well.

       vfs.lockup.user=
	      Change the effective user of the application  to	the  specified
	      user.

KEYBOARD BINDINGS
       Both the file browser and the playlist share some common keyboard bind-
       ings:

       j or down arrow
	      Move the selection one entry down.

       k or up arrow
	      Move the selection one entry up.

       ^F, page down or spacebar
	      Move the selection one page down.

       ^B or page up
	      Move the selection one page up.

       f      Show the full pathname of the selected song.

       g or home
	      Move the selection to the top.

       G or end
	      Move the selection to the bottom.

       /      Search the entries for a specified search string and select  the
	      first matching entry below the current selection. If no match is
	      found, the search will continue at the top of  the  list.  As  a
	      final attempt, the other window is searched as well.

       n      Perform another search for the last entered search string.

       There are also some bindings that only apply to the playlist:

       d      Remove the currently selected song from the playlist.

       D      Remove all songs from the playlist.

       R      Randomize the playlist.

       [      Move the currently selected song upward.

       ]      Move the currently selected song downward.

       The  file browser also has some bindings that allow you to traverse the
       file system or add files, directories or playlists (M3U and PLS) to the
       playlist:

       a      Add items after the current selected item in the playlist.

       A      Add items at the end of the playlist.

       i      Add items before the current selected item in the playlist.

       I      Add items at the beginning of the playlist.

       h or left arrow
	      Go one directory up.

       l or right arrow
	      Enter the selected directory.

       C      Change  the current directory by entering a pathname. This path-
	      name may be relative to the current directory. When the  address
	      refers  to a file or web location, it will be displayed as well.

       And last but not least, there are also some general keyboard bindings:

       <      Seek 5 seconds backward.

       >      Seek 5 seconds forward.

       b      Go to the next song. Sending the signal SIGUSR2 to the  applica-
	      tion will do the same.

       c      Pause  the  current  song.  When c is pressed again, playback is
	      resumed. Sending the signal SIGUSR1 to the application  will  do
	      the same.

       J      Seek to a specific position. When the inserted time is prepended
	      with a + or -, the seek is performed relative.

       q      Quit the application.

       r      Switch repeat on and off. When this  option  is  enabled,  songs
	      that  have  been successfully opened will be added to the end of
	      the playlist, causing the playlist to repeat.

       v      Stop playback.

       w      Write the current playlist to a PLS file.

       x      When in XMMS mode, it starts the selected song. In  party  mode,
	      this  song  will	always start playback of the first song in the
	      list.

       z      Go to the previous song.

       ^L     Force the application to redraw itself.

       ^W or tab
	      Switch the focus from the playlist to the file browser  or  vice
	      versa.

AUTHORS
       herrie	is   maintained  by  Ed  Schouten  <ed@fxq.nl>.  Please  visit
       http://herrie.info/ for more information, documentation	and  developer
       notes.



Ed Schouten			April 30, 2007			     HERRIE(1)
